Add Docker images and CLI binaries reference (#3323)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/docker-and-cli-binaries.mdx

| Binary                  | Description                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `autonomous-auctioneer` | Runs the Timeboost express lane auction. Accepts bids and determines express lane controllers.                                     |
| `bidder-client`         | Submits bids to the Timeboost express lane auction on behalf of a searcher or application.                                         |
| `el-proxy`              | Express lane proxy for testing. Wraps `eth_sendRawTransaction` calls and forwards them as express lane transactions. Testing only. |

### Sequencer coordination

| Binary                       | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `seq-coordinator-manager`    | Interactive TUI for managing sequencer coordination via Redis. Displays and controls active sequencer selection.                                  |

Reviewer: Minimize jargon (pattern guide §2.2): spell out the acronym on first use.

```suggestion
| `seq-coordinator-manager`    | Interactive terminal interface (TUI) for managing sequencer coordination via Redis. Displays and controls active sequencer selection. |
```

Author: ✅ Applied — the row now reads "Interactive terminal interface (TUI) for managing sequencer coordination via Redis…", spelling out the acronym on first use per pattern guide §2.2. Does that read correctly, or would you prefer "text-based UI"?

| `seq-coordinator-invalidate` | Invalidates a sequencer coordination message in Redis. Usage: `seq-coordinator-invalidate [redis url] [signing key] [msg index]`. Dev image only. |

### Utilities

| Binary                 | Description                                                                                                               |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dbconv`               | Converts node databases between storage backends (for example, LevelDB to Pebble).                                        |
| `genesis-generator`    | Generates genesis state and initialization data for new Arbitrum chains.                                                  |

> | `l2pricing-simulator`  | Simulates the behavior of Nitro's child chain pricing algorithm for testing gas pricing parameters.                       |

Reviewer: Write concisely (pattern guide §2.2): drop the filler.

```suggestion
| `l2pricing-simulator`  | Simulates Nitro's child chain pricing algorithm for testing gas pricing parameters. |
```

Author: Slight deviation from the suggestion: I ended up **removing** this row rather than just tightening it. `l2pricing-simulator` is built by nitro but shipped in **no** Docker image (0 matches in nitro's `Dockerfile` on `master`), and this page documents image contents. OK to drop it, or would you rather keep it with an explicit "not shipped in images" note?

The Nitro Docker images bundle multiple CLI binaries that serve different roles in the Arbitrum ecosystem. This page documents the image variants, the binaries they contain, and how to override entrypoints to run specific tools.

## Docker image variants

Nitro is published as several Docker image targets, each building on the previous one and adding more functionality:

| Image target           | Repository tag                        | Entrypoint                                                                                                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `nitro-node-slim`      | `offchainlabs/nitro-node:slim-*`      | `/usr/local/bin/nitro`                                                                                                         | Minimal node image with `nitro`, `relay`, `nitro-val`, `seq-coordinator-manager`, `prover`, and `dbconv`. No legacy WASM module roots for validation.                                       |

Reviewer 2: I think the repo tag is slightly off
https://hub.docker.com/r/offchainlabs/nitro-node/tags?name=slim
should instead be `offchainlabs/nitro-node:*-slim`
ex: `docker pull offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.11.0-a618155-slim`

Author: ✅ Confirmed against nitro `.github/buildspec.yml` (`docker tag nitro-node-slim:latest $REPOSITORY_URI:$IMAGE_TAG-slim-$ARCH_TAG`). The slim row now uses `offchainlabs/nitro-node:*-slim`, and I applied the same suffix form to the validator/dev rows. Does `offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.11.0-a618155-slim` match what you see on Docker Hub?

| `nitro-node`           | `offchainlabs/nitro-node:*`           | `/usr/local/bin/nitro --validation.wasm.allowed-wasm-module-roots /home/user/nitro-legacy/machines,/home/user/target/machines` | Full node image with DA tools, Timeboost binaries, and both legacy and current WASM module roots for validation.                                                                            |

> | `nitro-node-validator` | `offchainlabs/nitro-node:validator-*` | `/usr/local/bin/split-val-entry.sh`                                                                                            | Runs dual validation servers (current and legacy `nitro-val` instances) behind the main `nitro` process. Used for block validation across WASM module root upgrades.                        |

Reviewer 2: Same here

Author: ✅ Same fix here — corrected to the `:*-…` suffix tag form, verified against `buildspec.yml`. Looks right?

> | `nitro-node-validator` | `offchainlabs/nitro-node:validator-*` | `/usr/local/bin/split-val-entry.sh`                                                                                            | Runs dual validation servers (current and legacy `nitro-val` instances) behind the main `nitro` process. Used for block validation across WASM module root upgrades.                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `nitro-node-validator` | `offchainlabs/nitro-node:validator-*` | `/usr/local/bin/split-val-entry.sh`                                                                                            | Runs a validation server behind the main `nitro` process. Used for block validation across WASM module root upgrades.                        |
```

Author: Applied your row, with one deviation: nitro's `buildspec.yml` tags this image as `$IMAGE_TAG-validator` (suffix), so I used `offchainlabs/nitro-node:*-validator` rather than `:validator-*`. Does the suffix form match your understanding?

> | `nitro-node-dev`       | `offchainlabs/nitro-node:dev-*`       | `/usr/local/bin/split-val-entry.sh`                                                                                            | Extends `nitro-node-validator` with `deploy`, `seq-coordinator-invalidate`, `mockexternalsigner`, and the latest locally-built WASM module root. Intended for development and testing only. |

Reviewer 2: and here

Author: ✅ Fixed here too (suffix tag form). Can you confirm this matches the published tags?

> | `nitro-node-dev`       | `offchainlabs/nitro-node:dev-*`       | `/usr/local/bin/split-val-entry.sh`                                                                                            | Extends `nitro-node-validator` with `deploy`, `seq-coordinator-invalidate`, `mockexternalsigner`, and the latest locally-built WASM module root. Intended for development and testing only. |

Reviewer 4: **Validator/dev tag patterns are inverted (suffix, not prefix).**

Published tags use the **suffix** form `:*-validator` / `:*-dev`, e.g. `v3.11.0-a618155-validator` and `v3.11.0-a618155-dev` (verified on Docker Hub; confirmed by Nitro's `.github/buildspec.yml`: `docker tag nitro-node-validator:latest $REPOSITORY_URI:$IMAGE_TAG-validator-$ARCH_TAG`). The documented `:validator-*` / `:dev-*` prefixes do not exist.

(The `:*-slim` and bare `:*` rows above are correct.)

**Fix:** `offchainlabs/nitro-node:*-validator` and `offchainlabs/nitro-node:*-dev`. The example on line 64 (`:validator-latest`) should become a pinned tag like `:v3.11.0-a618155-validator`.

Author: corrected to `:*-validator` and `:*-dev`, and the split-validator example now uses `…-validator`. Verified against `buildspec.yml` (`$IMAGE_TAG-validator`, `$IMAGE_TAG-dev`). Good?

## Default entrypoint and flags

The `nitro-node` image (the standard production image) uses this entrypoint:

```shell
/usr/local/bin/nitro --validation.wasm.allowed-wasm-module-roots /home/user/nitro-legacy/machines,/home/user/target/machines
```

The `--validation.wasm.allowed-wasm-module-roots` flag tells the node which WASM module roots are valid for block validation. The comma-separated value includes:

- `/home/user/nitro-legacy/machines` — WASM roots from earlier Nitro versions, needed to validate historical blocks.
- `/home/user/target/machines` — Current WASM roots shipped with this image version.

<VanillaAdmonition type="warning">

If you override the entrypoint (for example, `--entrypoint relay`), the default flags are **not** applied. You must pass `--validation.wasm.allowed-wasm-module-roots` manually if the binary you are running requires validation support.

</VanillaAdmonition>

### The split validator entrypoint

The `nitro-node-validator` image uses `split-val-entry.sh` as its entrypoint. This script:

1. Generates a shared JWT secret for authentication between the node and its validation servers.

> 2. Launches two `nitro-val` instances on loopback addresses:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Launches a `nitro-val` instance on loopback addresses:
```

Author: ✅ In place — "Launches a `nitro-val` instance on loopback addresses". Reads correctly?

   - Port `52000` — current validator using `/home/user/target/machines`.

>    - Port `52001` — legacy validator using `/home/user/nitro-legacy/machines`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: ✅ Done — the legacy port-52001 line is gone; the script now launches a single validator on 52000. Is that the line you meant to drop?

3. Waits for both validation servers to become available.

> 4. Launches the main `nitro` process with `--node.block-validator.validation-server-configs-list` pointing to both validators.

Reviewer 4: **This section is now wrong against current `master` (stale since 2026-06-09).**

It was accurate when the PR opened (2026-05-27), but nitro commit `1375715c0` "remove legacy validator" (2026-06-09) reverted `split-val-entry.sh` to a single validator. On `master` it now:
- launches **one** `nitro-val` on port **52000** only — there is no port 52001 and no legacy validator;
- passes only `/home/user/target/machines` and a single `--node.block-validator.validation-server-configs-list` entry.

Worse, the example at lines 63–68 passes `--val-options-legacy`, which now **hard-exits**: `echo requested legacy validator options but no legacy validator exists; exit 1` — the container won't start. The `nitro-node-validator` table row (line 26, "dual validation servers") needs the same correction.

**Fix:** rewrite steps 2–4 for a single validator on port 52000, drop `--val-options-legacy` from the prose (line 61) and the example, and soften the table row to "runs a single split validation server; the legacy/dual-validator path is currently commented out upstream."

Author: rewrote steps 3–4. Did I capture the single-validator behavior correctly?

| `nitro-val` | Standalone validation server. Validates state transitions using WASM fraud proofs.                                |
| `relay`     | Sequencer feed relay. Receives the transaction feed from a sequencer and redistributes it to downstream nodes.    |
| `deploy`    | Deploys Arbitrum Rollup contracts to the parent chain. Used when launching new Arbitrum chains. Dev image only.   |
| `prover`    | WASM prover binary for generating and verifying fraud proofs.                                                     |

### Data availability

| Binary           | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `anytrustserver` | AnyTrust Data Availability Committee (DAC) server. Stores and serves batch data for AnyTrust chains. `daserver` is a symlink to this binary (deprecated name). |

> | `anytrusttool`   | CLI tool for AnyTrust key generation, keyset management, and certificate inspection. `datool` is a symlink to this binary (deprecated name).                   |

Reviewer 4: **Same root cause as the `--entrypoint datool` examples.**

`daserver`/`datool` are **not** symlinks — they are the *former* package names, renamed to `anytrustserver`/`anytrusttool` in OffchainLabs/nitro#4142 and **absent from the image** (invoking an old name only emits a deprecation log, and no such binary is shipped).

**Fix:** reword both cells to "former name; renamed to `anytrustserver`/`anytrusttool` and no longer present in the image," and rename the matrix rows at lines 128–129 to drop `/ daserver` and `/ datool`.

Author: reworded both catalog cells. is the wording OK?

### Utilities

| Binary                 | Description                                                                                                               |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dbconv`               | Converts node databases between storage backends (for example, LevelDB to Pebble).                                        |
| `genesis-generator`    | Generates genesis state and initialization data for new Arbitrum chains.                                                  |
| `l2pricing-simulator`  | Simulates Nitro's child chain pricing algorithm for testing gas pricing parameters.                                       |
| `transaction-filterer` | Filters transactions based on configurable rules before they reach the sequencer. Exposes a `/liveness` health endpoint.  |
| `mockexternalsigner`   | Mock external transaction signer for testing. Accepts a private key and exposes an RPC signing interface. Dev image only. |

### Image availability

> Not all binaries are present in every image. The following table shows which image targets include each binary:

Reviewer 4: **This table is framed as the full set but omits binaries actually in the images.**

The `Dockerfile` copies `blobtool` (L333), `filtering-report` (L335), and `validator` — the Rust validation server (L338) — into `nitro-node`, and `stylus-raw-deploycode` (L377) into `nitro-node-dev`; none appear here. Separately, `jit` (matrix line 127) has no entry in the binary catalog, and `l2pricing-simulator` is in the catalog but shipped in **no** image.

**Fix:** add the missing rows (and catalog entries), or reword to "selected binaries" so the omissions aren't misleading.

Author: - removed `l2pricing-simulator`
- added a `jit` catalog entry
- added a note that the images also bundle `blobtool`, `filtering-report`, `validator` (in `nitro-node`) and `stylus-raw-deploycode` (in `nitro-node-dev`) — rather than full catalog rows. 
One correction from the Dockerfile: the `validator` at L338 is the **Go** validator; the **Rust** validation server is L350 and ships only in the separate `nitro-node-rust-validator` image. 
Would you prefer full catalog entries (with descriptions) for those four binaries instead of the note?

| `el-proxy`                    |         No          |     Yes      |          Yes           |       Yes        |
| `genesis-generator`           |         No          |     Yes      |          Yes           |       Yes        |
| `transaction-filterer`        |         No          |     Yes      |          Yes           |       Yes        |
| `deploy`                      |         No          |      No      |           No           |       Yes        |
| `seq-coordinator-invalidate`  |         No          |      No      |           No           |       Yes        |
| `mockexternalsigner`          |         No          |      No      |           No           |       Yes        |

## Overriding entrypoints

Use `--entrypoint` to run a different binary from the same Docker image. The examples below use the `nitro-node` image.

### Feed relay

```shell
docker run --rm \
  --entrypoint relay \
  offchainlabs/nitro-node:latest \
  --node.feed.input.url wss://arb1.arbitrum.io/feed \
  --chain.id 42161
```

### Validation node

```shell
docker run --rm \
  --entrypoint nitro-val \
  offchainlabs/nitro-node:latest \
  --help
```

### DA keyset dump

```shell
docker run --rm \

>   --entrypoint datool \

Reviewer 4: **`--entrypoint datool` fails; `datool`/`daserver` are not in the image.**

They were *renamed* to `anytrusttool`/`anytrustserver` in OffchainLabs/nitro#4142 (2025-12-18, ~5 months before this PR). On `master`, `cmd/datool` no longer exists, the `Makefile` builds only the new names, and the `Dockerfile` creates **no** symlink — so this example, and the keygen example at line 179, error with "executable file not found." The note at line 172 ("`datool` is a symlink … Both names work.") is incorrect.

**Fix:** use `--entrypoint anytrusttool` in both DA examples and delete the symlink note.

Author: ✅ Both DA examples now use `--entrypoint anytrusttool`, and the "datool is a symlink" note is deleted. Confirmed `cmd/datool` no longer exists on master. Are the `dumpkeyset` / `keygen` subcommands unchanged under `anytrusttool`?

  offchainlabs/nitro-node:latest \
  dumpkeyset --url https://your-dac-url
```

`datool` is a symlink to `anytrusttool`. Both names work.

### DA key generation

```shell
docker run --rm \
  -v /path/to/keys:/data/keys \
  --entrypoint datool \
  offchainlabs/nitro-node:latest \
  keygen --dir /data/keys
```

## Docker Compose example

The following `docker-compose.yml` runs an Arbitrum One full node. Replace the placeholder URLs with your actual parent chain and beacon endpoints.

```yaml
# Arbitrum One full node — Docker Compose
# Requires: parent chain RPC endpoint and beacon chain endpoint
version: '3.8'

services:
  nitro:

>     image: offchainlabs/nitro-node:latest

Reviewer 4: **`offchainlabs/nitro-node:latest` is not a published tag.**

Docker Hub returns `404 tag 'latest' not found`, and a scan of 400+ tags shows none — Nitro only publishes versioned tags (`v3.11.0-a618155`, `…-slim`, `…-validator`, `…-dev`). This repo's own `src/resources/globalVars.js` pins `offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.11.0-a618155`.

Every runnable example uses `:latest` (this line plus lines 149, 159, 168, 180) and `:validator-latest` (line 64) — all fail with a manifest-not-found error on pull.

**Fix:** use a pinned tag — ideally the existing `@@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.11.0-a618155@@` variable — and note that Nitro publishes versioned tags only.

Author: replaced every `:latest` / `:validator-latest` with pinned `@@latestNitroNodeImage@@` (should make it "evergreen")

    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      # HTTP JSON-RPC endpoint
      - '8547:8547'
      # WebSocket JSON-RPC endpoint
      - '8548:8548'
    volumes:
      # Persistent data directory for the node database
      - nitro-data:/home/user/.arbitrum
    environment:
      # No environment variables are strictly required —
      # all configuration is passed as command-line flags below.
      # You can optionally set NITRO_LOG_TYPE=json for structured logging.

>       NITRO_LOG_TYPE: 'json'

Reviewer 4: **`NITRO_LOG_TYPE` has no effect.**

Nitro configures logging via the `--log-type` flag (koanf), not a `NITRO_LOG_TYPE` environment variable, so this env var does nothing and the comment is misleading.

**Fix:** remove the env var (and its comment) and add `- --log-type=json` to the `command:` list instead.

Author: removed the env var and added `- --log-type=json` to `command:`. Confirmed koanf maps `NITRO_LOG_TYPE`→`log.type`, not the `--log-type` flag, so it had no effect. Good?

>       NITRO_LOG_TYPE: 'json'

Reviewer 3: Can we remove `NITRO_LOG_TYPE` here and add `--log-type=json` under `command`? LOG_TYPE may not converted to log-type but will be converted to --log.type which is not what we want.

Author: removed `NITRO_LOG_TYPE` and added `- --log-type=json`. Is `--log-type=json` the value you'd expect?

    command:
      # Parent chain connection (Ethereum mainnet RPC)
      - --parent-chain.connection.url=https://your-parent-chain-rpc-url
      # Beacon chain endpoint for EIP-4844 blob retrieval
      - --parent-chain.blob-client.beacon-url=https://your-beacon-chain-url
      # Chain ID for Arbitrum One
      - --chain.id=42161
      # Initialize from the latest snapshot to avoid syncing from genesis.

>       # Set to "latest" for the most recent snapshot, or a specific URL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      # Set "--init.latest" for the most recent snapshot, or a specific URL to "--init.url".
```

Author: Applied, and went a step further per a-thomas-22's correctness note: switched the example to `- --init.latest=pruned`, since the archive snapshot is the wrong type for a full node. Does `pruned` match your expectation for this Arbitrum One full-node example?

>       - --init.url=https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/arb1/nitro-archive.tar

Reviewer 4: **The comment conflates two different flags, and the snapshot is the wrong type for a full node.**

`--init.url` takes only a URL; "Set to 'latest'" actually describes the separate `--init.latest archive|pruned|genesis` flag (see `start-here.mdx:63`). And for a **full node**, the *archive* snapshot is the wrong choice — use the pruned snapshot or `--init.latest=pruned` (as in `_dao-chains-example.mdx`).

**Fix:** drop the "Set to 'latest'" line and switch to `--init.latest=pruned` (or the pruned snapshot URL).

Author: switched the example to `- --init.latest=pruned` and documented that `--init.latest` accepts `archive | pruned | genesis`. Verified `acceptedSnapshotKinds` in `cmd/conf/init.go`. Good for this full-node example?

      # Enable HTTP RPC on all interfaces so the port mapping works
      - --http.addr=0.0.0.0
      - --http.port=8547
      - --http.vhosts=*
      - --http.corsdomain=*
      - --http.api=net,web3,eth,arb
      # Enable WebSocket RPC
      - --ws.addr=0.0.0.0
      - --ws.port=8548
      - --ws.origins=*
      - --ws.api=net,web3,eth,arb

volumes:
  nitro-data:
    driver: local
```

To start the node:

```shell
docker compose up -d
```

To follow the logs:

```shell
docker compose logs -f nitro
```

## Ports and endpoints

| Port | Protocol  | Service        | Notes                                                                                            |
| ---- | --------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 8547 | HTTP      | JSON-RPC       | Main RPC endpoint for `eth_`, `net_`, `web3_`, and `arb_` namespaces.                            |
| 8548 | WebSocket | JSON-RPC       | WebSocket RPC endpoint. Supports subscriptions (`eth_subscribe`).                                |

> | 8549 | HTTP      | AUTH RPC       | Authenticated RPC used by the split validator entrypoint for node-to-validator communication.    |

Reviewer 4: **Port 8549 is mis-attributed.**

The split validator entrypoint talks to its validator over `ws://127.0.0.10:52000` with a JWT, **not** 8549. Port 8549 is the default auth/engine RPC port (`--auth.*`), bound to loopback by default.

**Fix:** reword the Notes to describe 8549 as the default JWT-authenticated auth RPC port, and remove the "split validator entrypoint" attribution.

Author: Reworded 8549. Is that accurate?
